* Likelihood of Hanjin entering court receivership rises-sources

* Shipping downturn saw indicator dip to all-time low in Feb

* Hanjin shares tumble more than 26 pct (Adds details, share price moves, comments)

By Joyce Lee

SEOUL, Aug 30 Creditor banks of Hanjin Shipping Co Ltd have decided to stop supporting South Korea's largest shipper, increasing the likelihood that the company will enter court receivership, two people at the creditor banks told Reuters.

A spokesman for lead creditor Korea Development Bank declined to comment before an official statement. A Hanjin Shipping spokeswoman did not have an immediate comment.

The two people declined to be identified as they were not authorised to speak with media on the matter.

Hanjin Shipping's shares fell more than 26 percent on Tuesday after Yonhap News Agency reported the creditor banks' decision.

In June, South Korea announced plans to create an 11 trillion Korean won ($9.84 billion) fund to support two state-run banks, including KDB, that were most exposed to its struggling shipping and shipbuilding firms.

Those firms include Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co Ltd, which is nearly half-owned by KDB following a bailout after the Asian financial crisis of the late 1990s.

"It seems creditors are harsher on Hanjin than they were on Daewoo after loans that went to Daewoo ended up in a fiasco," said Lee Sang-jae, a Seoul-based economist for Eugene Investment & Securities Co.

"KDB can no longer be seen as wasting taxpayer money after their previous bailout (of Daewoo) failed. Also, the number of jobs at stake isn't that big compared with Daewoo," he said.

Daewoo Shipbuilding, which lost about $1 billion in the first half the year and plans to sell shares to raise funds by the end of the year, has roughly 40,000 staff and contractors in South Korea, while Hanjin has 1,428 South Korean employees as of end-June, according to the company.

Lee said banks exposed to Hanjin had been preparing loan-loss provisions.

"The risk of the company destabilizing the financial market is quite low," he said.

Hanjin had debt of 5.6 trillion won ($5 billion) at the end of 2015, as a steep industry downturn squeezed profit margins, the company has said.

The Baltic Dry Index, a shipping industry indicator which measures changes in sea transport cost, had rebounded to 720 by Friday after dipping to an all-time low of 290 in early February.

Hanjin Shipping, which operates about 150 container ships and bulk carriers, asked creditor banks in April to restructure its debt in an attempt to weather the squeeze in margins.

Earlier this month, Hanjin Group, the parent of Hanjin Shipping and flag carrier Korean Air Lines Co Ltd, submitted a plan to Hanjin Shipping's creditors pledging to raise up to 500 billion won for the troubled shipper.

But Hanjin Shipping is not expected to be able to pay about 1 trillion won to 1.3 trillion won in obligations such as charter fees and terminal use fees between 2016 and 2017, even if Hanjin succeeds in renegotiating loss-making charter fees and rolling over existing bank debt, state-run KDB said last week.

Shares in Korean Air Lines, Hanjin Shipping's biggest shareholder, were up more than 6 percent on Tuesday. Shares in local rival Hyundai Merchant Marine Co Ltd, which is also under voluntary debt restructuring, rose 7 percent.

Hanjin Shipping operates about 60 regular routes worldwide, the company said, and ranked sixth in market share for Asia-North America shipping routes in the first half of 2016 based on cargo volume, according to trade data provider Datamyne. ($1 = 1,117.7000 won) (Additional reporting by Cynthia Kim and Yun Hwan Chae; Editing by Tony Munroe and Muralikumar Anantharaman)